# Kirby Panel Fileselect field

## What is this

This is a custom fileselect field for the Kirby panel, which makes it easy to select an uploaded file from the current page and add it to your content txt as a separate field.

## Installation

If not already exists, add a fields folder to your `site/panel` folder and copy the entire tags field folder there. Your structure should look like this: 

	site
		panel
			fields
				fileselect
					fileselect.css
					fileselect.php

## In your blueprints

As soon as you dropped the fileselect field into your panel folder you can use it in your blueprints: 

	fields:
		file: 
			label: My File
			type:  fileselect

This will render a select field with all available files for the current page. 

## Options

### empty

Add a first "empty" option to the select field with a custom label. This makes it possible to not select a file at all. 

#### Example

	fields:
		file: 
			label: My File
			type:  fileselect
			empty: Select a file


### filetype

Filter the list of files, which are used for the select field by filetype. Available filetypes are image, video, document, sound, other. You can specify more than just one type

#### Example

	fields:
		file: 
			label:    My File
			type:     fileselect
			filetype: 
				- document

### extension

Filter the list of files, which are used for the select field by extension. You can specify more than just on extension and even combine this with filetype filtering for more control 

#### Example

	fields:
		file: 
			label:     My File
			type:      fileselect
			extension: 
				- jpg
				- png