# Tagcloud Plugin (Beta)

## What is it?

The tagcloud plugin will fetch all tags (comma separated) from subpages and return them with additional information - like the number of subpages for a each tag. 

## Installation 

Put the tagcloud.php file in your site/plugins folder. 

## How to use it?

### Content files

To add tags to your content files, put them in a comma separated list:

	Title: Some Title
	----
	Text: Some Text
	----
	Tags: design, fun, photography
	----

In your template add i.e.:

    <?php $tagcloud = tagcloud($pages->find('blog'), array('limit' => 20)) ?>
	
	<ul>
	<?php foreach($tagcloud as $tag): ?>
	  <li><a href="<?php echo $tag->url() ?>"><?php echo $tag->name() ?></a></li>
	<?php endforeach ?>
	</ul>	


As first argument you pass the main page. All children of it will be searched to find all tags. So if you have a blog and you want to find all tags of blog articles you add pass the main blog page as first argument. 


## Available options

### limit

The number of tags in your tagcloud. If not specified, all tags will be returned.

### field

The name of the Tags field in your content files. By default this is "tags"

### children

Which children of the given page should be searched? Possible values are "all", "visible", "invisible". Default is "visible"

### baseurl

The base URL, which will be used to build tag URLs. By default the URL of the given page. 

### param

The name of the param, which will be used for the URL. By default this is just "tag". So the default URL will be "http://yourdomain.com/given-page/tag:design" for example

### sort

The field to sort by. By default the tagcloud will be sorted by the number of results per tag, but you can also sort it by tag name for example. 

### sortdir

The sort direction. Can be "desc" or "asc". Default is "desc"

	    
## Author
Bastian Allgeier
<http://getkirby.com>