# Email Plugin

## What is it?

It's a simple email sender plugin. You can use it everywhere in your code to send emails via PHP's mail(), [Amazon Simple Email Service](http://aws.amazon.com/ses/) or [Postmark](http://postmarkapp.com/)

## Installation 

Copy the email.php file to your site/plugins folder.

### Amazon SES configuration

Go to your site/config/config.php and add the following rules: 

		c::set('email.use', 'amazon');
		c::set('email.amazon.key', 'Your Amazon SES Key');
		c::set('email.amazon.secret', 'Your Amazon SES Secret');

### Postmark configuration

Go to your site/config/config.php and add the following rules: 

		c::set('email.use', 'postmark');
		c::set('email.postmark.key', 'Your Postmark API Key');

## How to use it?

You can use it in your templates, snippets or plugins like this:

    <?php 
    
    $send = email(array(
      'to'      => 'John Doe <john@doe.com>',
      'from'    => 'Max Musterman <max@musterman.com>',
      'subject' => 'My first Email',
      'body'    => 'Hello my friend! How are things going?'
    ));
    
    ?>

### React on sending errors

    <?php 
    
    $send = email(array(
      'to'      => 'John Doe <john@doe.com>',
      'from'    => 'Max Musterman <max@musterman.com>',
      'subject' => 'My first Email',
      'body'    => 'Hello my friend! How are things going?'
    ));
	
	if(error($send)) {

      // show the response
      a::show($send);

	  // or do something else like saying that the email failed
      echo "The email could not be sent";
    
    }
    
    ?>

## Available Params

This is the full list of params you can pass to the email function:

### to

The address the email will be sent to. You can use either just the address…
	
	'to' => 'john@doe.com'

…or the address together with a name…

	'to' => 'John Doe <john@doe.com>'

If you are always sending to the same address, you can setup the to address in your config like this:

	c::set('email.to', 'John Doe <john@doe.com>');

Afterwards you don't need to pass the to address when calling the email function. 

### from

The address from which the mail has been sent. Please make sure to use an address which you are allowed to use to avoid spam. The following formats are allowed

	'from' => 'john@doe.com'

	'from' => 'John Doe <john@doe.com>'

If you are always sending from the same address, you can setup the from address in your config like this:

	c::set('email.from', 'John Doe <john@doe.com>');

Afterwards you don't need to pass the to address when calling the email function. 

### replyto

The reply address. The from address will be used if you don't pass this. The following formats are allowed

	'from' => 'john@doe.com'

	'from' => 'John Doe <john@doe.com>'

If you are always using the same reply address, you can setup the address in your config like this:

	c::set('email.replyto', 'John Doe <john@doe.com>');

Afterwards you don't need to pass the to address when calling the email function. 

### subject

The subject line for your email. If you are always using the same subject you can setup a default subject in your config:

	c::set('email.subject', 'This is my default subject');

### body

The plain text for your email. The email plugin does not support sending HTML emails. 

### use

If you want to switch the transport service, you can do it like this:

	'use' => 'mail'

	'use' => 'amazon'

	'use' => 'postmark'

### postmark.key

If you want to send from a different postmark api key, you can pass the key in the params, when calling the email function. 

### postmark.test

You can pass `postmark.test => true` when calling the email function to make a test call instead of sending a real request to the postmark api. Unfortunately this is not supported by the Amazon API as well. 

### amazon.key

If you want to send from a different amazon api key, you can pass the key in the params, when calling the email function. 

### amazon.secret

If you want to send from a different amazon api secret, you can pass the key in the params, when calling the email function. 


## Author
Bastian Allgeier
<http://getkirby.com>