# Universal string replacing plugin

This is a plugin for [Kirby](http://getkirby.com/) that can very powerfully replace content placeholders (for example %myAge or THISISAPLACEHOLDER) with dynamic content, for example your current age or anything else you can generate dynamically and echo with PHP. Of course static text is possible too.

These placeholders can be defined in a single place, the replacer.php file or just given to kirbytext() from the template/snippet.

## Installation

1. Please first update your Kirby installation to 1.1.1 (or higher), since Replacer is deeply integrated into the system and needs this version.
2. Put the whole `replacer` folder (the one with this file in it) into your `site/plugins` folder.
3. Create a `site/replacer` folder with a `replacer.php` in it to use the "more powerful" placeholders (it will be auto created if possible).
4. In the `config.php` file inside this folder you can find options for this plugin, please have a look and change them however you like.

## How to use it

There are a lot of different ways to use this plugin. Here are the two main methods:

- Give placeholders and values directly to a `kirbytext()` call, or apply them to the whole output
- Save your placeholders into `site/replacer/replacer.php` marked with the usage of the placeholder. This is the more flexible way to use this plugin and is very powerful as well.

Now I will show you how you can use them in detail:

### Apply placeholders directly from templates

This is the easiest way to use placeholders without even having to create a `site/replacer` folder and is useful, if you just want to use a few placeholders without a need to collect them in a single file.

#### In `kirbytext()`

##### Example

```php
kirbytext($page->text, array(
  'myplaceholder' => 'my replacement'
));
```

With this call, every occurrence of `myplaceholder` will be replaced with `my replacement`.

##### RegEx replacement

By default, you can use RegExes for this, so

```php
kirbytext($page->text, array(
  '{my( )?placeholder}' => 'my replacement'
));
```

would work as well. If you want to deactivate this auto detecting behavior and only use string replacement/regex replacement, you can modify this in the plugin specific config file you put into the config folder.

##### use with `$markdown`

If you want to use the "markdown" param, you can use it like this:

```php
kirbytext($page->text, $markdown, array(
  'my placeholder' => 'my replacement'
));
```

This will be auto detected, so there is no need to change anything in existing templates using $markdown.

#### Global replacement

If you want to replace things in the whole source code produced by your template (for example whole tags) and you can't get them via `kirbytext()`, there is a way to do this:

```php
replacer::on();
?>
Anything that's echoed here or written statically will be the subject to replace in!
<?php
echo "This too!";
replacer::off(array( // now, all given replacement params will be used to replace in all echoed stuff between on() and off()
  'my placeholder' => 'my replacement'
);
```

**Notice**: Be careful here, since tag names or attributes will be in the subject too, so for example don't replace 'style' with 'anything else', because it will change &lt;style&gt; to &lt;anything else&gt;!

### Apply placeholders from a global replacer.php file

This is the more powerful way to use this plugin, as you can define sets of placeholders and apply them only on a specific part of the output/template.

For using that, the `site/replacer/replacer.php` is required, please create it if you didn't do it yet.

If you want to have site-specific placeholders (one for dev and one for production for example, good for global placeholders), you can also create a site-specific file with the same naming syntax as in `site/config`, for example `site/replacer/replacer.example.com.php`.
You don't have to add all placeholders from the normal `replacer.php` file, they will work too, but you can *overwrite* them in the site specific file.

These files are actually YAML files collecting all placeholders (They have the file extension `.php`, because you can add PHP code as well, semantics, you know? ;)).

#### Options

There are a lot of different possible options, here are they in detail:

##### Basic usage

	my placeholder:
	  with: my replacement
	  usage: kirbytext

All occurrences of "my placeholder" in every `kirbytext()` processed text will be replaced with "my replacement".

##### Dynamic replacements

	%year:
	  with: <?php date('Y'); ?>
	  usage: kirbytext

PHP code will be evaluated before replacing it.

##### "On-Demand"-placeholders

	another one:
	  with: something
	  usage: demand
	this is a quite long text hard to remember, but is frequently used in a text you have:
	  with: make this sentence a bit shorter...
	  usage: demand
	  alias: thisone

Placeholders defined with `usage: demand` are only used for `kirbytext()` processed text, but have to be specified manually:

```php
kirbytext($page->text(), array(
  'another one',
  'thisone'
));
```

As you can see, you can also define "aliases" for these placeholders. If you specify "thisone" as an replacement, all occurrences of "this is a quite long…" will be replaced.

##### Global placeholders

	<style type="text/css">:
	  with: <style>
	  usage: global

Global placeholders will be used for the whole output that gets to the browser. Please read "Global replacements" above to understand this feature.

###### Global placeholders: Sets

	<script type="text/javascript">:
	  with: <script>
	  usage: global
	  set: html5tags, html5
	<script type="text/javascript">:
	  with: <script>
	  usage: global
	  set:
	    html5tags
	    html5

With "Sets", you can limit replacement of specific placeholders in specific parts of the output.
For using that, you have to turn "replacer.autouse" off to use the `replacer::on()` and `replacer::off()` functions (see "Global replacements" above).
Then, just add the set you want to use as an argument of either `replacer::on()` or `replacer::off()`, for example

```php
replacer::on('html5');
```

#### Template restriction
  
	anything:
	  with: anything else
	  usage: (does not matter)
	  templates: default, about-us, blog
	another anything:
	  with: anything else
	  usage: (does not matter)
	  templates:
	    default
	    about-us
	    blog

With the "templates" argument, you can restrict *every* placeholder to work in specific templates only. If not defined, the placeholder will work in all templates.

## Questions?

Don't hesitate to contact me: <lukas@lu-x.me>

## Author

Author: Lukas Bestle <http://lu-x.me>