# Search Plugin (Beta)

## What is it?

The search plugin makes it possible to search the entire content of your site and to build a nice search form for your users.

## Installation 

Put the search.php file in your site/plugins folder. 

## How to use it?

    $search  = new search(array('searchfield' => 'search'));
    $results = $search->results();

## Available options

### searchfield

The name of the html search field. This will also build the param in your URL: 
http://yourdomain.com/search/fieldname:searchword

### query

Instead of passing a search field you can also pass a query string instead, which will be used to search for. The search won't be connected to a search form that way, but you can use it to manually search by that query. 

### fields

An array of field names to search in. By default all fields will be searched.

### mode ("and" or "or" | default is "or")

Switch between "and" or "or" as search mode. 

### score

An array with field names as keys and score values, which will be mulitplied with the hits per field to get a more valid result

### words (default = false)

Set this to true to search for full words only instead of strings within words.

### ignore

An array of uris which should be ignored. This is perfect to not show "secret" pages in results or to skip the error page for example.

### include

The include option makes it possible to take control of which pages are included in search results. You get the following options: "all", "visible", "invisible"

### in

Specify a URI here to search within the children of that page instead of the entire site.

### minlength

The minimum length of searchwords.

### stopwords

An array of stopwords, which will not be considered during search.

### paginate

Automatically paginate the final result. Add a number of rows to return for each result page. 
	    
## Author
Bastian Allgeier
<http://getkirby.com>