# Authentication Plugin

## What is it?

The Authentication plugin makes it possible to create user accounts and user groups for your website and restrict access to certain parts. 

## Installation 

- Copy the auth folder to your site/plugins folder.
- Copy auth/snippets/login.php to your snippets folder and optionally customize it
- Create an invisible content/login folder with a login.txt
- Create a login.php template in site/templates and include the login form snippet. I.e.:

    <!-- site/templates/login.php -->

    <?php snippet('header') ?>
    <?php snippet('login') ?>
    <?php snippet('footer') ?>

- Create an invisible content/logout folder with a logout.txt
- Crate a logout.php template in site/templates: 

    <?php Auth::logout() ?>

- Create an site/accounts folder and add your first user account. Use the username as filename (ie. yourusername.php)

    <?php if(!defined('KIRBY')) exit ?>

    # setup your account credentials here
    # it's highly recommended to use md5 or sha1 encryption 
    # for your passwords. read more about encryption in the
    # docs: http://getkirby.com/docs/panel/accounts

    username: yourusername
    password: yourpassword
    group:    optional-group-name


Now you have a fully functional login/logout system. 

## Setting up the firewall

### Full restriction

If you want to restrict access to all your pages, I recommend to add the firewall to your header.php snippet:

    <?php Auth::firewall() ?>

This will block access to all pages for all unauthenticated users.


### Restriction per template

If you want to fine-tune access to certain templates you should add the firewall as the first line of each template, which should have restricted access.

### General blocking + fine-tuning 

As a third alternative you can setup a general firewall in the header.php snippet and an additional firewall for single templates. This will give you full control over who can access what. 

## Customizing the firewall

The firewall has a bunch of settings, which can be used to give access to certain users or groups

### redirect (default: login)

By default the firewall is redirecting to the login page, but you can change the redirect url with this option:

    // This firewall will redirect to the homepage
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'redirect' => '/'
    ));

    // This firewall will redirect to the error page
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'redirect' => 'error'
    ));

### logout (default: true)

By default the firewall will logout users which are not allowed to access the current page. You can change this here:

    // This firewall will just redirect but not logout
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'logout' => false
    ));


### allow

By default the firewall will allow access to all available users and groups. You can fine-tune this here:

    // This firewall will only grant access to the user "yourusername"
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'allow' => array('user:yourusername')
    ));

    // This firewall will only grant access to users in the group "admin"
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'allow' => array('group:admin')
    ));

    // This firewall will only grant access to users in the group "admin" and a user "bart"
    Auth::firewall(array(
      'allow' => array('group:admin', 'user:bart')
    ));

### deny

You can also deny certain users or groups

    Auth::firewall(array(
      'deny' => array('user:yourusername', 'group:editors')
    ));

Deny will overwrite allow rules. 

## The login snippet

The login snippet should be customized to fit your needs for the login form. 
The Auth::login() method will always be needed in the first line to make the form work. 
You can set the redirect URL, which will be used to redirect users after a successful login. 
By default users will be taken to the homepage:

    <?php $login = Auth::login('somepage') ?>

## The logout template

In the logout template you are also able to specify the redirect URL after logouts like this: 

    <?php Auth::logout('somepage') ?>




