# SublimeVideo

## About

- Version: 1
- Date: 14.02.2012
- Author: Thibaut Ninove ([WooConcept](http://wooconcept.com)), with the help of Bastian Allgeier
- Support: provided as is, no support provided
	
## What is it?

This plugin is just a Kirbytext extension, in order to easily use the SublimeVideo HTML player. It provides you with a new tag:

	(sublime: file-name video1: ext1 video2: ext2 poster: jpg width: xxx height: yyy)

## Installation

1. Copy the `sublimevideo.php` file into your `site/plugins` folder. If the plugins folder doesn't exist yet, please create it. As a plugin, the file will be automatically loaded by Kirby.

2. Put your SublimeVideo script/token in the header  of your site (or in the footer just before the closing `</body>`). It should look like this :

	<script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.sublimevideo.net/js/YOUR_TOKEN.js"></script>

> Please note that you need to have a SublimeVideo account (free). This service is very easy to use but if you need help, please refer to their documentation. I am also not going to discuss video encoding here.

## How to use it?

SublimeVideo needs a poster, videos, width and height. **We consider that you name the poster and the videos with the same way.**

Example : 

- venice-trip.jpg
- venice-trip.mp4
- venice-trip.ogg

When you want to include the video named "venice-trip" using SublimeVideo, just use the new `sublime` tag and mention that name.

### Attributes

- `sublime`: the files common name
- `video1`: the first video extension (usually "mp4")
- `video2`: the second video extension (usually "ogg")
- `poster`: the poster image extension (usually "jpg")
- `width`
- `height`

### Example

	(sublime: venice-trip video1: mp4 video2: ogg poster: jpg width: 540 height: 304)