# EmbedJS

## About

- Version: 1.0
- Date: 19.08.2012
- Author: Sebastian Aigner (<http://sebastian-aigner.net/>), with the template of Bastian Allgeier <http://getkirby.com>
- Support: provided as is, no support provided
	
## What is it?

This plugin is a KirbyText extension which allows you to embed and use Javascript files on your website. It provides you with a new tag:

	(javascript: file.js)

## Installation

Copy the `embedJS.php` file into your `site/plugins` folder. If the plugins folder doesn't exist yet, please create it. As a plugin, the file will be automatically loaded by Kirby.

## How to use it?

It's pretty easy to use. If you want to keep your directories clean, copy your javascript files to `assets/javascript` (I'm pretty sure this folder doesn't exist it, so you might need to create it.). If you are more a messy type of developer, just throw your javascript files somewhere where they are accessible.

That's it. You can now use embedJS in the following ways:

	(javascript: file.js)
Will embed `/assets/javascript/file.js` into your website (where you put it.)

	(javascript: /file.js)
Will embed `/file.js` into your website (where you put it.)

	(javascript: http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.0/jquery.min.js)
Will embed `jquery.min.js` into your webpage (via HTTP)

	(javascript: https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.0/jquery.min.js)
Will securely embed `jquery.min.js` into your webpage (via HTTPS)

## Tips and Tricks

The leading slash tells embedJS to use a path relative to Kirbys main directory. This makes you able to throw files somewhere else than the predefined location.

Embedding Javascript will shortly stop the web page from being rendered further (try it out!). If you don't like how it renders, it might be a good idea to put _all_ your Script files either at the __beginning__ or at the __end__ of your KirbyText document.